Hello everyone and welcome
to the advanced strings lecture.
So string objects have a variety of methods we can use
to save time and add functionality.
What we're gonna do is explore some of them in this lecture.
So let's go ahead and create a string called hello world
and let's explore some different methods we can use.
So let's start with changing case.
So we can change cases to upper and lower case
and there's a couple methods we can use.
One of them is the capitalise method
and what the capitalise method does is it capitalises
the first word in a string.
We can also use the upper method which you may have seen
before to uppercase every letter in a string,
and then we can also use the lower
to lowercase every letter in a string.
There's also location and counting methods.
So if I wanted to for instance count how many O's
there are in a string I can use the count method,
and I can also find them.
So I can say find the first occurrence of an O,
and I'll return the index where that happens.
Well there's also formatting methods
and these are a little strange and they're also not used
that often, but it still might be good
to know them in case you ever run into them.
The first one we're gonna talk about is the centre method.
So let's go ahead and check our string.
It's still just hello world, since we lowercased it again,
and what the centre method does is it allows you
to place your string centred between
a provided string of a certain length.
So these are pretty esoteric and I've actually never seen
this used in code but it's still a method you can use.
So for instance let's say you wanted to centre your string
hello world between a bunch of Z's and you wanted
the total length of that string to be 20.
Then this is what it would look like.
So we centred hello world between Z's
and the total length of the string is 20.
Okay, there may not be too many use cases for that
and I've personally actually I've never used it.
Another this method that we may or may not use
is the expand tabs method.
So for instance if I say hello T and that will break it
to a tab, woops, let me make sure that it's working.
So this back slash T when you print it
it will be an escape character for a tab.
So it will actually hello tab hi.
So this is gonna be useful if you ever find yourself
parsing through all that text data,
and instead of having to print it what you can
actually do is just call the expand tabs method,
and it will do the same thing.
Again, not used that often.
Let's go ahead and check out some other methods
that check if the string is some sort of case.
So for instance I'm going to set a string just called hello
and there's a method called isalnum
and this checks if all the characters in S are alphanumeric,
and in this case it's true, and what we can also do
is just check if they're all alphabetic.
So numeric doesn't count anymore.
So we can just check is alpha and that's also true.
These are actually quite useful and I have seen them used
a lot, especially if you find yourself doing some sort
of natural language processing techniques.
Another couple of ways, or a couple methods we can use is
is lower and this will return true if all case characters
in S are lowercase, and if there's
at least one case character in S.
We can also check is space and it'll return true
if all characters in S are white space.
In this case that's not the case, so it should return false.
So is space which will return true if all characters
and that's our white space.
It's false since we have letters in there.
Another method called is title.
So we can check is title and what that does,
it's gonna, it'll only return true
if S is a title case string,
and there's at least one character in this.
So uppercase characters may only be, may only follow uncased
characters and lowercase characters only follow cased ones.
Another method is upper, and that will return true
if all the cased characters in this are uppercase.
So, is upper.
This case, it's false.
But if I were to say let's say hello all uppercase
and then I asked is upper on that, then that is true.
All right.
One last method for checking cases is ends with.
So I could check S that ends with
and let's say I wanted to verify that it ends with O.
Yeah, and this is basically the same
thing as just doing this, right?
Checking if that last character
in the string is equal to something.
That's, and it returns a Boolean.
Okay, so now we're gonna move on to some built
in regular expression operations.
So strings have some built in methods that can resemble
full on regular expressions operations,
and one of them that's really commonly used is split,
and we can use split to split the string
of a certain element and return a list of the results.
So let's check our string, which is hello,
and let's say we wanted to split the string at E.
Then split will return the result in a list,
so everything before that E, and then everything after it,
and remember, it only separates at the first occurrence.
Excuse me, it'll actually separate at every occurrence of E.
So just to make that clear I'll show you an example.
So if I have a string that's, looks something like this,
I could say split at I and it'll split it up
at every instance of that I.
Okay, there's also partition, which is pretty similar
to split but in this case what partition does is
it will have the head, the sep, and the tail.
So what I'll do is it will search for the separator
which ever you feed it in the arguments and S that string
and return the part before it, the separator itself
and the part after it, and then if the separator
is not found it returns S and two empty strings.
So, for instance if I said partition of I here
this one is at the first instance, instance of I,
or whatever separator you put in.
So it'll give you the first part, the separator,
and then everything else that happened after it.
So unlike split which splits at every instance,
partition will only do it at the first instance,
and it will also return the separator in the middle.
So the front, separator, and the back.
Okay, so that's it as far as the lecture on strings.
Let's just go ahead and do a quick review.
A lot of these were Boolean checks so I know
that was kind of hard to keep track of.
It's probably better just to read it along in the Jupyter
notebooks, but we went over methods for changing case,
such as capitalise, upper, and lower.
We looked at location and counting such as counts and finds.
We looked at a few esoteric formatting ones,
such as centre, also expand tabs,
and then is check methods so that all of the tonnes
of methods to check if the string is in some case,
such as isalnum, is alpha, is lower, is space,
is title, is upper, and ends with.
And then we looked at some built in regular expressions,
such as splits and partitions.
Okay, so you should feel comfortable using the variety
of methods that are built into string objects
and you should definitely feel comfortable if you run
into them when you're reading someone else's code.
All right, that's it for the advanced strings lecture.
Thanks, I'll see you at the next one.